Another feature you've probably noticed on the air B and B listing page is the ability to set a deposit.
How this works is when someone wants to book your apartment you could say that you want to set a deposit
for $500.
What are B and B is going to do is they're going to authorize the other person's card for five hundred
dollars in addition to the total booking amount and then two days after they leave and nothing's been
reported as stolen or broken then they're going to turn the security Pozza to the person who booked
it.
A beginning kind of standpoint your strategy should be to limit your security deposit.
But I think it's completely rational to require one if you're doing a private room rental typically
your deposits going to be smaller if you're doing a full apartment.
It's going to be quite a bit larger.
How do you tell if the amount that you're asking for is reasonable.
I would say that a reasonable deposit just varies on the condition of your apartment and the value of
the items in it.
Usually what I do and I do this in my case I just kind of looked at the things around my apartment.
I figured what's the absolute worst case scenario.
And then what's kind of a reasonable scenario.
Say I managed to rent out to someone who just has tons of people over and they throw a party and things
get broken.
You know I do have a lot of priceless goods do I have a lot of really nice items and that's kind of
how I came to the conclusion that for for apartment rentals my deposit I believe is seven hundred.
That is a reasonable amount of money considering how much I charge per night.
What you don't want to do is say rent your spare room for $100 and have a deposit of 300 400 dollars.
That's not particularly reasonable because a lot of people don't want to book one night or two nights
and then have this huge outstanding authorization on their card when it's so much larger compared to
how much they're paying to stay there.
So there's not a lot of magic to this feature.
I suggest you put it there just because it's going to cushion any problems.
In my experience I've only had one episode where I had to use the security deposit.
And it really wasn't even contentious.
I had one person who tried to glue together a suitcase and the glue had tripped onto my hardwood floors.
They didn't notice it but it ended up actually corroding a hole on the floor.
And I did end up having it buffed out and then the stain which was quite expensive and of charging him
$300.
It's worth putting a security deposit.
In retrospect if something happens you'll be much happier about it.
But keep in mind there is an insurance policy for Airbnb So it is something that is excessive.
They do burn down your house you have a massive insurance policy from them that you can call on this
current deposit and a lot of ways is redundant so don't go crazy with it.
Don't make multiple thousand dollar security deposit unless you're running out your space for $2000
a night or a thousand dollars a night.
Believe it or not if you play around on ebay you can find some properties like that.
If you guys have any questions of the security deposit let me know and this is a brief lecture.
There are some details to the security deposit that you can kind of dive into but I don't think are
necessarily worth going over in a short lecture on it.
I personally just don't see it as a huge feature.
I don't really see it as a big thing that's going to deter someone from booking or invite them to book.
Only problem I see is that people put excessive deposits and you know like the pricing strategy we discussed
I always suggest start with a small but reasonable deposit and then you can increase it to get more
comfortable as there is more demand and it's more social proof period property.
When people are looking at a property they know tons of people have stayed here.
They're much more likely to say oh it's fine.
You know there's a $500 deposit.